I want to go back to Israel.
CNN's Nic Robertson is live there.
Nic, what are you learning
Well,
we've just learned
from the Israeli Defense Force
that they have put
some troops across the border into Gaza
in the past 24 hours.
They call it a.
A local.
Looking for the language here.
Exactly. A local raid.
And so a limited incursion.
A local raid is a language
they use
to describe the troops
that they've sent across into Gaza.
It's not clear
how many they've sent across.
It's not clear yet
what their mission was.
if that mission was successful.
It's not clear yet
if they had any casualties.
But this is the first time
since the weekend,
since this big buildup of forces
that we've heard
from the IDF, that they have in fact,
sent troops inside the Gaza Strip.
This, they say, was over the past
24 hours.
The indication seems to be
that this was limited.
And the indication seems to be
that it is over
now that those troops are out.
And that would perhaps
be within the sort of expected operation
or parameters
for something like this, that
the IDF would not announce
something like this while they had forces
over the border inside of Gaza itself.
It really is interesting
that they did make this public.
And you said very clearly
that we don't know what the mission is
right now.
I mean, you would think it might be
twofold. One is to try to get hostages.
Another is
that they located
some of the of the terrorists
or some of the
higher ranking
officials in Hamas they are looking for.
But
what does it tell you
that we know this information right now
There's a
there's another thing to add
to that mix of what it might be as well.
It might be going into recover bodies.
It might be going in to recover soldiers
who are who who died over the weekend
and have been
on the other side of the fence
It could be as simple as that.
But what it speaks to what it speaks to
is that Israel is more
and more on a footing
where it can go into this
very dangerous area for troops
and be ready to protect itself
and carry out
a mission that it's indicative
that there will be more missions
like this to come.
I think until we get the details of
precisely what it was,
if it was more than just,
let's say, a body recovery,
then then then that that will tell us
that there
that they're really on a forward
footing at the moment.
Thank you so much for that, Nic.
I want to bring back
Colonel Cedric Leighton,
who will hopefully continue
to give us a bit
bit of perspective
on what Nic just reported.
What are your thoughts?
So, Dana, the
the key indicator here is that
this was a series of small raids
and every single
one of the options you talked about
a, you know,
possibly a hostage recovery mission,
possibly
the business about going after
the senior leadership of Hamas
and or the recovery of
the remains of dead Israeli soldiers.
All of those are possibilities.
I am thinking it's either number one
or two at this point.
In essence,
what they're looking for is
it would be a perfect thing
for Israeli intelligence to recover its
lost luster in the wake of the debacle.
On the strategic front,
if they have a good tactical
intelligence success
where their special operations
forces come in
and they actually have
a successful mission, of course.
We don't know yet
whether or not the mission
has been successful.
We have no idea,
you know, what the actual targets were.
But it seems
as if this is the kind of mission
where special operations
forces would go in
and have very final find its targets,
finite targets that would go in,
and they would be able to take
actions on them
and meet limited objectives in that way.
Colonel,
I'm just being told in my ear
that the IDF says that they were,
in fact,
searching for hostages
as part of this raid.
We do not know if that was successful.
Again, what does that tell you
as a former intelligence officer?
So the likelihood is very high
that we might be disappointed
with the outcome of this, Dana,
because of the way
in which Hamas operates.
But we could see hopefully some success.
But I don't want to give anybody
any false hope at this point in time.
It's very early in this, the IDF.
If things are successful
at some point,
the IDF is clearly going to announce
that they have rescued hostages.
And of course, that would be
a big political
as well as military victory
for the Israelis.
And it would also clear the way
for further incursions
from an operational standpoint
on the military side,
further incursions
of a more conventional nature
if they choose to do them into Gaza
so that, you know,
we're kind of in this environment now.
So if this was a hostage
rescue mission
or trying to find out
where the hostages are
that would be a classic
special operations mission
and it would be something
that would have a high payoff
for the Israeli political
and military leadership.
More on that breaking news into CNN.
The Israeli Defense Forces
say they have carried out
some raids in the Gaza Strip.
They say that they are
searching for hostages.
I want to bring in Matthew Chance,
who is across this story
following the developments
reporting today from Tel Aviv.
Matthew, what do we know
Well, I mean, look,
I mean, we're all bracing, of course,
for the I'm coming back in my ear here.
We're all bracing
for the possibility of a large scale
Israeli invasion
by land into the Gaza Strip.
But, of course,
we have to remember
that complicating that military operation
is the fact that there are between 100
and 150
Israeli hostages
that have been hidden by Hamas militants
after they were seized inside Israel,
all across that territory.
And I think what we're seeing now,
according to the IDF,
small, limited incursions
into the Gaza Strip
with the express purpose of,
you know,
first of all, trying
to neutralize
terrorist locations
is the first thing to say,
but also to try and locate
the whereabouts
of some of those hostages In fact,
the newly appointed hostage affairs
coordinator here in Israel
gave me a statement earlier
saying that they were doing
everything they could on every level
to try and,
you know,
search every area of ground
to try and find
where these people are,
where people are located.
And I think this is this is a part of it.
But to be clear, it is not
we don't think the beginning of the large
scale land invasion
that that everybody's braced for
But again, to reiterate,
when that happens,
the presence of those
captives in the Gaza Strip is something
that the military planners
are going to have to take
into account already.
Hamas
militants say
that as a result of the ferocious
air strikes
that have been pounding areas
of the Gaza Strip
for the past several days,
at least 13 of the hostages they took
have been killed.
That's not been corroborated
by the Israelis
or by the United States,
but it does underline
what a precarious situation
the military planners are
and we all are currently
involved in, Becky.
Yeah, and diplomatic sources
had told me
earlier in the week, can confirm
now by the prime minister of Qatar
speaking alongside
the US secretary of state today,
saying that
there are efforts
that they are mediating between Israel
and Hamas to try and effort
the release of those hostages
earlier on in the week.
We were told that
the efforts were around
an exchange of hostages,
women and children,
Israeli women and children in Gaza
for women and youth in prisons.
In Israel.
So we know that that is ongoing.
We also know that the Secretary of State,
Antony Blinken, who's been in Jordan
and is now in the Gulf, doing the rounds,
trying to ensure
that there is some sort
of humanitarian corridor set up for
and some sort of safe zones set up
for these gardens.
Gazans,
we just spoke to the
Jordanian foreign minister
who said,
you know,
the Gazans need
to stay within the country
as far as Jordan is concerned,
within the enclave,
as far as Jordan is concerned.
They don't want to see the spillage
of Gazans outside of the enclave.
But clearly,
you know,
as they are told by the IDF to move
from northern Gaza, one assumes,
you know,
because there is this imminent air
assault by ground and air
forthcoming, the IDF trying to ensure
that Gazans are evacuated out of the way.
Hamas, of course,
telling Gazans to stay in place.
There is an awful lot going on.
The secretary of state
not only looking
at the humanitarian corridors
and the hostage issue, also speaking
to the Israelis
and the region about how to de-escalate
what is going on, both in the short
term, in the hours to come
and trying to ensure
that this conflict,
what is going on here now
in Israel and in Gaza, that does
not spill outside of these borders.